---
layout: post
title:  The 2022 Linguistic Reading Challenge
date:   2022-01-09
description: Reading prompts based on the linguistic features of book titles
---

A bit before New Year's, inspired by annual reading challenges like the [POPSUGAR](https://www.popsugar.com/entertainment/reading-challenge-2022-48569820) and [BookRiot](https://bookriot.com/read-harder-2022/) ones, I had an idea: what if something like this, but based entirely on linguistic features of the book titles? My [first ideas](https://twitter.com/EmmaSManning/status/1474484864292306946) were syntax-based, but with a little more brainstorming I came up with ideas to represent a number of other linguistic subfields as well. And then I decided to pare down my loong list of ideas to just 10, in recognition of the fact that many of us are too busy to do a lot of reading and those who do read a lot may already be planning to do other challenges. I hope that the shortened list is doable, but also, if you like this idea but don't feel up to checking off the whole list feel free to do just a few. This is for fun! There are no rules! I didn't get around to writing this post until well into January, so I'm certainly not judging.

I thus present: 

## The 2022 Linguistic Reading Challenge

*In 2022, Read a Book Whose Title...*

1. Is a prepositional phrase
2. Starts and ends with your two favorite phonemes (of those available in the language you're reading in)
3. Contains a compound
4. Involves lexical, syntactic, and/or scope ambiguity
5. Contains apposition
6. Contains a word with at least three morphemes
7. Gives you an N400
8. Has three consecutive consonants with the same place of articulation (intervening vowels are fine)
9. Contains a relative clause
10. Contains a word borrowed from a different language family

If you do this, I'd love to hear what books you pick for each of the items! Tweet at me or something!